---
title: Skroutz API v3
---

# API v3

This describes the resources that make up the official Skroutz API v3. If
you have any problems or requests please contact us.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Schema

All API access is over HTTPS, and accessed from the `api.skroutz.gr`
domain. All data is sent and received as JSON.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr/categories/999999999

HTTP/1.1 404 NOT FOUND
Server: nginx
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Status: 200 OK
X-UA-Compatible: IE=Edge,chrome=1
Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
X-Request-Id: 1475076950
X-Runtime: 0.011315
X-DNS-Prefetch-Control: off
X-App: benjy
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Date: Tue, 24 Sep 2013 10:49:50 GMT
X-Varnish: 1475076950
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
X-Origin: varnish2
X-Cache: MISS

[]
</pre>

Blank fields are included as `null` instead of being omitted.

All timestamps are returned in ISO 8601 format:

    YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ

## Parameters

Many API methods take optional parameters. For GET requests, any parameters not
specified as a segment in the path can be passed as an HTTP query string
parameter:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i "https://api.skroutz.gr/categories?page=2&per=4"
</pre>

In this example, the pagination parameters `page` and `per` are passed in the query
string.

For POST, PATCH, PUT, and DELETE requests, parameters not included in the URL should be encoded as JSON
with a Content-Type of 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded':

## Client Errors

There are three possible types of client errors on API calls that
receive request bodies:

1. Sending invalid JSON will result in a `400 Bad Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 35

        {"message":"Problems parsing JSON"}

2. Sending the wrong type of JSON values will result in a `400 Bad
   Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 40

        {"message":"Body should be a JSON Hash"}

3. Sending invalid fields will result in a `422 Unprocessable Entity`
   response.

        HTTP/1.1 422 Unprocessable Entity
        Content-Length: 149

All error objects have resource and field properties so that your client
can tell what the problem is.  There's also an error code to let you
know what is wrong with the field.  These are the possible validation error
codes:

missing
: This means a resource does not exist.

missing\_field
: This means a required field on a resource has not been set.

invalid
: This means the formatting of a field is invalid.  The documentation
for that resource should be able to give you more specific information.

already\_exists
: This means another resource has the same value as this field.  This
can happen in resources that must have some unique key (such as Label
names).

If resources have custom validation errors, they will be documented with the resource.

## HTTP Redirects

API v3 uses HTTP redirection where appropriate. Clients should assume that any
request may result in a redirection. Receiving an HTTP redirection is *not* an
error and clients should follow that redirect. Redirect responses will have a
`Location` header field which contains the URI of the resource to which the
client should repeat the requests.

301
: Permanent redirection. The URI you used to make the request has been
superseded by the one specified in the `Location` header field. This and all
future requests to this resource should be directed to the new URI.

302, 307
: Temporary redirection. The request should be repeated verbatim to the URI
specified in the `Location` header field but clients should continue to use the
original URI for future requests.

Other redirection status codes may be used in accordance with the HTTP 1.1 spec.

## HTTP Verbs

Where possible, API v3 strives to use appropriate HTTP verbs for each
action.

HEAD
: Can be issued against any resource to get just the HTTP header info.

GET
: Used for retrieving resources.

POST
: Used for creating resources, or performing custom actions (such as
merging a pull request).

PUT
: Used for replacing resources or collections. For PUT requests
with no `body` attribute, be sure to set the `Content-Length` header to zero.

DELETE
: Used for deleting resources.

## Pagination

Requests that return multiple items will be paginated to 25 items by
default.  You can specify further pages with the `?page` parameter. You can also 
set a custom page size to 10 with the `?per` parameter.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.skroutz.gr/categories?page=2&per_page=10
</pre>

When there are other pages the response will contain the [Link](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988) header.
    
    Link

    <https://api.skroutz.gr/categories?page=508&per=4>; rel="last",
    <https://api.skroutz.gr/categories?page=3&per=4>; rel="next"

Note that page numbering is 1-based and that ommiting the `?page`
parameter will return the first page.

## Rate Limiting

You can make up to 5,000 requests per hour.

You can check the returned HTTP headers of any API request to see your current
rate limit status:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr/categories/1441

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 01 Jul 2013 17:27:06 GMT
Status: 200 OK
X-RateLimit-Limit: 60
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 56
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873
</pre>

The headers tell you everything you need to know about your current rate limit status:

`X-RateLimit-Limit`
: The maximum number of requests that the consumer is permitted to make per hour.

`X-RateLimit-Remaining`
: The number of requests remaining in the current rate limit window.

`X-RateLimit-Reset`
: The time at which the current rate limit window resets in [UTC epoch seconds](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time).

If you need the time in a different format, any modern programming language can get the job done. For example, if you open up the console on your web browser, you can easily get the reset time as a JavaScript Date object.

<pre class="highlight"><code class="language-javascript">
new Date(1372700873 * 1000)
// => Mon Jul 01 2013 13:47:53 GMT-0400 (EDT)
</code></pre>

Once you go over the rate limit you will receive an error response:

<pre class="terminal">
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2013 14:50:41 GMT
Status: 403 Forbidden
X-RateLimit-Limit: 60
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 0
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1377013266

{
    "message": "API rate limit exceeded. See http://developer.skroutz.gr/v3/#rate-limiting for details."
}
</pre>

You can also [check your rate limit status](/v3/rate_limit) without incurring an
API hit.
<br>


### Staying within the rate limit

If you are exceeding your rate limit, you can likely fix the issue by caching API responses
and using [conditional requests](#conditional-requests).

If you're using conditional requests and still exceeding your rate
limit, please [contact us][support] to request a higher rate limit for your application.

## User Agent Required

All API requests MUST include a valid `User-Agent` header. Requests with no `User-Agent`
header will be rejected. We request that you use your Skroutz username, or the name of your
application, for the `User-Agent` header value. This allows us to contact you if there are problems.

Here's an example:

<pre class="terminal">
User-Agent: Awesome-Skroutz-App
</pre>

## Conditional requests

Most responses return `Last-Modified` and `ETag` headers. You can use the values
of these headers to make subsequent requests to those resources using the
`If-Modified-Since` and `If-None-Match` headers, respectively. If the resource
has not changed, the server will return a `304 Not Modified`. Also note: making
a conditional request and receiving a 304 response does not count against your
[Rate Limit](#rate-limiting), so we encourage you to use it whenever possible.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr/categories/1440
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 200 OK
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873

$ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr/categories/1440 -H "If-Modified-Since: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT"
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873

$ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr/categories/1440 -H 'If-None-Match: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"'
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1372700873
</pre>

## Cross Origin Resource Sharing

The API supports Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for AJAX requests.
you can read the [CORS W3C working draft](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors), or
[this intro](http://code.google.com/p/html5security/wiki/CrossOriginRequestSecurity) from the
HTML 5 Security Guide.

Here's a sample request sent from a browser hitting
`http://example.com`:

    $ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr -H "Origin: http://example.com"
    HTTP/1.1 302 Found

Any domain that is registered as an application is accepted.
Here's a sample request for a browser hitting [cheap yellow shoes](http://cheapyellowshoes.com/):

    $ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr -H "Origin: http://cheapyellowshoes.com"
    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
    Access-Control-Expose-Headers: ETag, Link, X-RateLimit-Limit, X-RateLimit-Remaining, X-RateLimit-Reset, X-OAuth-Scopes, X-Accepted-OAuth-Scopes
    Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true

This is what the CORS preflight request looks like:

    $ curl -i https://api.skroutz.gr -H "Origin: http://cheapyellowshoes.com" -X OPTIONS
    HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
    Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Authorization, Content-Type, If-Match, If-Modified-Since, If-None-Match, If-Unmodified-Since, X-Requested-With
    Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, PATCH, PUT, DELETE
    Access-Control-Expose-Headers: ETag, Link, X-RateLimit-Limit, X-RateLimit-Remaining, X-RateLimit-Reset, X-OAuth-Scopes, X-Accepted-OAuth-Scopes
    Access-Control-Max-Age: 86400
    Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true

## JSON-P Callbacks

You can send a `?callback` parameter to any GET call to have the results
wrapped in a JSON function.  The response includes the same data output as the regular API,
plus the relevant HTTP Header information.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.skroutz.gr/categories/1442?callback=foo

foo({
  "meta": {
    "status": 200
  },
  "data": {
    "category": {
      "children_count": 0, "family_id": 11,
      "id": 1442,
      "name": "Ξαπλώστρες Κήπου &amp; Βεράντας",
      "image_url": "http://b.scdn.gr/images/categories/large/1442.jpg"
    }
  }
})
</pre>
