content/guides/authentication.md, before:

---
title: Authentication | Skroutz API
---

<img src="<%= relative_path_to('/assets/images/oauth.png') %>" alt="oauth">

We use [OAuth2.0](http://oauth.net/2/) for authorization.

Make sure you have obtained a valid set of `client_id`, `client_secret`  
To get one <a href="mailto:api@skroutz.gr">contact us</a>

## Get an authorization code

<pre class="terminal">
GET https://www.skroutz.gr/oauth2/authorizations/new
</pre>

Name            | Type     | Required | Description
----------------| ---------|-----------| -----------
`client_id`     | `String` | yes       | `The client_id supplied by skroutz for the application`
`redirect_uri`  | `String` | yes       | `The redirect_uri set for the application`
`response_type` | `String` | yes       | `The value should be "code"`
`scope`         | `String` | no        | `The space separated set of permissions your application wishes` 

If everything went OK, you are redirected to 

<pre class="terminal">
http://redirect_uri?code=a_valid_authorization_code
</pre>

### Obtainable permissions
<ul class="permissions">
  <li>public</li>
  <li>favorites</li>
  <li>notifications</li>
</ul>

<a href="<%= relative_path_to('/authentication/permissions') %>">More info about permissions</a>

## Get an oauth_token

<pre class="terminal">
POST https://www.skroutz.gr/oauth2/token
</pre>

Name            | Type     | Required | Description
----------------| ---------|----------| -----------
`client_id`     | `String` | yes      | `The client_id supplied by skroutz for the application`
`client_secret` | `String` | yes      | `The client_secret supplied by skroutz for the application`
`redirect_uri`  | `String` | yes      | `The redirect_uri set for the application`
`response_type` | `String` | yes      | `The value should be "code"`
`grant_type`    | `String` | yes      | `authorization_code` 
`code`          | `String` | yes      | `authorization code obtained`

If everything went OK, the response has the following form:

<pre class="terminal">
{
    "access_token": "your_access_token",
    "refresh_token": "your_refresh_token",
    "token_type": "bearer",
    "expires_in": 3599
}
</pre>

## Using the oauth_token
There are 2 ways to specify your oauth_token for each request you make.
You may pick the one that suits you best.

### Via the oauth_token parameter
You may add the oauth_token parameter obtained above as access_token.

Example Request

<pre class="terminal">
GET http://skroutz.gr/api/categories/40?oauth_token=your_token
</pre>

### Via Authorization HTTP header
You have to add the following header:

<pre class="terminal">
Authorization: Bearer your_token
</pre>

Commit message:

Add info about 2-legged OAuth2.0

content/guides/authentication.md, after:

---
title: Authentication | Skroutz API
---

<img src="<%= relative_path_to('/assets/images/oauth.png') %>" alt="oauth">

We use [OAuth2.0](http://oauth.net/2/) for authorization.

Make sure you have obtained a valid set of `client_id`, `client_secret`  
To get one <a href="mailto:api@skroutz.gr">contact us</a>

## Application Token
With an application token you can only access resources not associated
to a user. Have a look at related [permissions](<%= relative_path_to('/authentication/permissions') %>)

[More info about client-credentials](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.4)

<pre class="terminal">
POST https://www.skroutz.gr/oauth2/token
</pre>

Name            | Type     | Required | Description
----------------| ---------|----------| -----------
`client_id`     | `String` | yes      | `The client_id supplied by skroutz for the application`
`client_secret` | `String` | yes      | `The client_secret supplied by skroutz for the application`
`redirect_uri`  | `String` | yes      | `The redirect_uri set for the application`
`grant_type`    | `String` | yes      | `client_credentials` 
`scope`         | `String` | no        | `The space separated set of permissions your application wishes` 

## User Token

### Get an authorization code
With a "user token" you can access resources associated to a user. Given that the user 
permits you to.

[More info about authorization code grant](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.1)

<pre class="terminal">
GET https://www.skroutz.gr/oauth2/authorizations/new
</pre>

Name            | Type     | Required | Description
----------------| ---------|-----------| -----------
`client_id`     | `String` | yes       | `The client_id supplied by skroutz for the application`
`redirect_uri`  | `String` | yes       | `The redirect_uri set for the application`
`response_type` | `String` | yes       | `The value should be "code"`
`scope`         | `String` | no        | `The space separated set of permissions your application wishes` 

If everything went OK and the user granted your the requested permissions declared in 
the scope parameter, you are redirected to: 

<pre class="terminal">
http://redirect_uri?code=a_valid_authorization_code
</pre>

### Obtainable permissions
<ul class="permissions">
  <li>public</li>
  <li>favorites</li>
  <li>notifications</li>
</ul>

<a href="<%= relative_path_to('/authentication/permissions') %>">More info about permissions</a>

### Get an oauth_token

<pre class="terminal">
POST https://www.skroutz.gr/oauth2/token
</pre>

Name            | Type     | Required | Description
----------------| ---------|----------| -----------
`client_id`     | `String` | yes      | `The client_id supplied by skroutz for the application`
`client_secret` | `String` | yes      | `The client_secret supplied by skroutz for the application`
`redirect_uri`  | `String` | yes      | `The redirect_uri set for the application`
`response_type` | `String` | yes      | `The value should be "code"`
`grant_type`    | `String` | yes      | `authorization_code` 
`code`          | `String` | yes      | `authorization code obtained`

If everything went OK, the response has the following form:

<pre class="terminal">
{
    "access_token": "your_access_token",
    "refresh_token": "your_refresh_token",
    "token_type": "bearer",
    "expires_in": 3599
}
</pre>

## Using the oauth_token
There are 2 ways to specify your oauth_token for each request you make.
You may pick the one that suits you best.

### Via the oauth_token parameter
You may add the oauth_token parameter obtained above as access_token.

Example Request

<pre class="terminal">
GET http://skroutz.gr/api/categories/40?oauth_token=your_token
</pre>

### Via Authorization HTTP header
You have to add the following header:

<pre class="terminal">
Authorization: Bearer your_token
</pre>
